what is the voice in the head the voice
in the head is this voice that's
literally talking to us all the time
according to the Mayo Clinic at least
50,000 thoughts happen in our head every
day and how do we know those thoughts
are happening we'll just stop thinking
for a
minute and maybe your voice just said
wait how long is he going to stop for
wait what's going on here right it said
something hey everybody in today's video
we're going to talk about the voice in
the head what it is is where it came
from and how to get rid of it and here's
a hint if you try to get rid of it you
can't my name is Joe Hudson I'm a former
venture capitalist turned coach and now
I coach some of the most notable names
in Silicon Valley so another way to
think about the voice in your head is is
a simple little experiment I just want
you to say out loud this is the voice in
my
head this is the voice in my head okay
and now you're just going to think
it this is the voice in my head what you
thought that was The Voice in your head
and it's constantly talking to us it's
editing what we're doing and saying no
you shouldn't have done it this way you
should do it that way maybe it's
bullying you saying you need to be
perfect you need to be on time you need
to be better you need to get in shape
you need to stop eating so much you need
to stop smoking so it's this constant
Onslaught typically a very negative
selft talk the voice in the head can be
separated into two parts the repetitive
part the thing that it says all the time
over and over and over again like repeat
repeating your to-do list and the other
part is kind of an epiphany voice in the
head where the voice in the head just
has this thought that it doesn't repeat
over and over again like oh oh wow I
could do that or oh oh that would be
cool I should get my wife flowers any of
those thoughts that's not what we're
talking about in this video this video
is all about just the negative
reoccurring voice in your head so now
let's go on to number two where the
voice in the head came from so generally
that negative reoccurring voice in the
head came from our childhood and the way
that somebody who was caring for us
spoke so if we had a very critical very
abusive parent often times we're going
to have a very critical very abusive
voice in the head if we had a parent who
was just nitpicky then we're going to
have a nitpicky voice in the head if we
have a parent that was just always
silently critical we're going to have
like a more silent critical voice in the
head so we're basically re inventing how
we were parented in our head and it's
just perpetually going and typically
people sometimes think oh I really need
this voice in my head because if I
didn't have it I wouldn't do anything I
would just like sit on the couch pop a
beer drink who cares that's what's going
to happen if I lose the voice in the
head but take a minute and really think
about that for a second imagine you went
to work and you hung out at work and
your boss was right next to you going
yeah yeah type faster type faster okay
yeah make sure you do that no no don't
do that oh you screwed up oh you screwed
up that sucks why did you do that come
on come on come on why aren't you
working fast you have to work faster or
you're going to lose your job you think
you'd be more productive right it
wouldn't work but somehow we think that
this voice in the head that we have is
absolutely something that we need or
everything's going to fall apart but
that's not true at all in fact when the
voice in our head has a better
relationship with us it actually gives
us a lot more energy because we're not
constantly preparing for the battle
we're not constantly shielding ourselves
we're not constantly in a state of
adrenaline because we're beating
ourselves up and we can free our energy
and be much much more
productive all right now let's go into
the third part of it how to get rid of
the voice in your head so remember at
the beginning I said if you try to get
rid of it you can't if you try to get
rid of it you're resisting it and the
more you resist it the more it persists
so having a battle with the voice in
your head it will always win
so having that fight trying to get rid
of it trying to manage it trying to
control it it will just act out even
more so any one of these techniques that
I'm about to tell you if you use them to
actually get rid of the voice in your
head they will stop working if you use
them just like I'm experimenting I'm
exploring I'm learning to have a better
relationship with the voice in the head
then the voice in the head will start
letting go and it'll just dissipate and
slowly move into the background and
disappear
the first one is to change the way that
you react to it so typically the voice
in the head says something to you maybe
it's like you have to lose weight and
you typically go yeah I should lose
weight and then you I'm going to ignore
you that would be your reaction here's
another reaction you can have to it you
should lose weight oh I see that you're
really
scared and I don't want to react to your
fear or it could say hey you should lose
weight and you could say
how about you uh speak to me with a
little more respect whatever you want
just change the way that you react to
the voice in your head and notice that
the voice in the head will start
changing the way that it acts towards
you so here's number two welcoming it so
welcoming it is a really interesting one
so typically the voice in the head
because it's acting abusive because it's
acting negatively we just kind of want
it to go away so a different way to
react to it is to deeply welcome it and
when I say welcome it I could even say
like fall in love with it it doesn't
mean that you do what it says it doesn't
mean that you react to it like it's your
boss it just means like you love it the
way you might love a little kid having a
temper tantrum or the way that you might
love a dog who really really wants to be
pet but it's like way out of control so
you're going to make sure it doesn't
jump on you but you still pet it it's
the same way so the voice in the head
could be like you have to work harder
and you could be like oh yeah you want
me to work harder
I really hear you it's like a deep
welcoming of it it's like opening your
heart to it and letting it be welcomed a
lot of the things that the voice in the
head does is out of fear it's a deep
fear and the thing about fear is the
more you say don't be scared the more
you're like no I don't like you cuz
you're scared the more the fear erupts
in your system whereas if you can just
give loving attention and allow the
voice in the head to be seen it can
relax it can just like ah right I'm
being
heard the third approach of the voice in
your head is to see that everything it
says is a lie it doesn't mean it's a
complete lie but it's not the complete
truth and therefore it's a lie so it
says you have to work
harder who says it like how do you know
that's the case and so the idea is that
everything the voice in your head says
you pay attention to it and you ask
yourself hey is that 100% true is that
for sure do we know that absolutely and
find the part of the voice in the head
that may not be right so think about it
this way you have a politician you
probably don't like them and you watch
that politician talk and you see a whole
bunch of acolytes going yeah yeah that's
true that's true that's true and you're
like ah man that's not true yeah so the
politician is the voice in your head and
unless you're not acting like an acolyte
you're probably going to buy into what
the voice in the head says and when you
see that it's not true it's easier to
welcome it it's easier to love it it's
easier to react to it differently
because it doesn't have that same kind
of control over you when you think that
everything it says is the
truth so the last way that you can
really work with the voice in your head
is to see how much it cares there is
nothing it says to you that isn't an act
of care granted it says it horribly it's
like the worst micromanaging boss if you
can actually translate it so you can
feel what the Deep care is when it says
Hey lose weight you can be like oh I
really see that you care about my health
I appreciate that right if you really
can see the care and you can even ask it
to just be more caring in the way it
expresses it to you and then that
changes the relationship and pretty soon
that repetitive negative selft talk just
starts to dwindle and evaporate slowly
but surely what's really important is to
see the voice in your head as a guide
rather than than an enemy so if you see
it as an enemy you're going to be
constantly in a fight and like I said
you're never going to win that fight but
if you see it as a guide it's going to
point to exactly the places in you that
you haven't healed or that you don't
accept or that you don't love so it's
this amazing guide to really allow
yourself to feel more fulfilled more
productive and when you're getting
things done it's going to allow you to
do it with a lot more joy and a lot more
just ah yeah so if you like the video
just hit subscribe and tell us what else
you want to hear about